Let's take a moment to go over some definitions.
Virtual private clouds and subnets within
that cloud follow the same rules as traditional networking.
So let's take a look at those before moving forward.
The main attribute of your VPC is to block of available IP addresses,
also known as the address space and the CIDR block.
These simply imply the number of
available IP addresses that you will have
to deploy resources within this private network,
such as Windows servers,
Linux servers, databases and so on.
Each one of these will require its own IP address.
Each number in this
10.0.0.0 it's called an octet because each number has eight bits in binary,
it can go from 0-255.
So in this example,
10.0.0.0/16 means reserve the top 16 bits,
that is, two octets or the first two numbers to be the fixed part of this network.
This is in the same way the area code in your phone number,
it's the same for a large group of phone numbers.
This leaves you with the last two numbers,
two octets or 16 bits,
available for your IP addresses.
How many IPs is that?
Let's see, 256 times 256,
gives you around 65,000 IP addresses,
which is plenty for most use cases.
Now, a subnet is simply a small subset
of those 65,000 IP addresses available in our example.
But why do I need a subnet?
What is the purpose? Well, a subnet creates logical separation between resources,
say separate production from development,
it can help you easily block or allow access to and from resources through routing,
and it can help you by providing services such as
public internet access to a specific set of resources and not to others.
So back to our example,
if our VPC is 10.0.0.0/16,
meaning that the top two numbers are fixed in place,
we could create a subnet and call it 10.0.1.0/24.
Meaning that the top three numbers or three octets,
totaling 24 bits are constant,
with eight bits available for addresses or 255 IP addresses.
I could create 255 of this smaller subnets within our VPC by doing 10.0.2.0,
10.0.3.0, and so on.
So to recap, the main goal of the VPC is to
provide private IP address space for your network and resources.
A subnet is simply a smaller chunk of that IP address space.
The slash number at the end of an address represents the number of bits
that are constant for this VPC or subnet from left to right.
Having subnets help you with routing and providing services to and from your resources.
Remember to create networks and subnets with future expansion in mind,
you will likely need more IP addresses than you think.
The VPC container is one of these.
We're going to drag it over.
This is very interesting because the VPC has the ability to
span over several availability zones.
So now, we have a VPC covering both of our availability zones.
Again, so far the only thing that we created is the VPC.
Those availability zones are already there,
you don't need to worry about those,
those are there available for you.
Now, when we actually going to create something inside our VPC,
now is going to be specific to one of these zones that we have,
and that's going to be called a subnet.
I'm going to drop a subnet in here,
I'm going to make it small because I'm going to need several of
these and I'm going to explain what they are.
In this case, we're going to call them private subnet.
Actually no, we're going to name this as public subnet.
Let me change the name here and specify public subnet.
I'm going to zoom in so you can see better.
I'm going to do the same for the other one.
I'm going to call it public subnet.
We can call it 1 and 2 in order to be able to distinguish them.
We're going to have private ones,
but right now let's call this Public Subnet 1 and 2,
and this is what we have for right now.